 Anna Karenina is a Russian novel by Leo Tolstoy. It's about Anna, a married woman who has an affair with a young military officer. the wife had discovered that the husband was carrying on an intrigue with a French girl, who had been a governess in their family, and she had announced to her husband that she could not go on living in the same house with him. This position of affairs had now lasted three days, and not only the husband and wife themselves, but all the members of their family and household, were painfully conscious of it. Every person in the house felt that there was no sense in their living together, and that the stray people brought together by chance in any inn had more in common with one another than they, the members of the family and household of the Oblonskys. The wife did not he was in love with his wife, and he was not going to change that fact. I’m a cheater and I’m going to cheat some more. Anna is coming to visit and will probably help them reconcile. he's a dick. Anna Karenina is a novel by Leo Tolstoy, published in installments from 1873 to 1877 in the Russian literary magazine The Russian Messenger. It is often cited as one of the world's greatest novels. Tolstoy himself considered Anna Karenina his first true novel, after he had earlier written several shorter novels, including Childhood, Boyhood, and Youth (1852), and War and Peace (1869). I’m not a fan of the book, but I think the movie is pretty good. Stepan Arkadyevitch is a scoundrel. Oblonsky is a liberal, and he is a good guy. Stepan Arkadyevitch is a good guy. I’m a fan of the book, but I’m not a fan of the movie. I think the movie is a good adaptation, but it’s not a good movie. The movie is a good adaptation, but it’s not a good movie. The movie is a good adaptation, but it’s not a good movie. The movie is a good adaptation, but it’s not a good movie. The movie is a good adaptation, but it’s not a good movie. The movie is a good adaptation, but it’s not a good movie. The movie is a good adaptation, but it’s not a Levin is a shy nerd who is still in love with Kitty, but he’s also a very good person and a very good friend. He’s a very good friend to Stepan Arkadyevitch, and he’s a very good friend to Kitty, and he’s a very good friend to the Shtcherbatskys. He’s a very good friend to everyone. And he’s a very good person.I’m not going to tell you what happened, you’ll have to read the book yourself. Levin is in love with Kitty, but he is too shy to tell her. He is also in love with a peasant girl. He is torn between the two. He goes to Moscow to forget about the peasant girl. He meets Kitty at a ball, and is even more in love with her. He goes to the zoo with Stepan Arkadyevitch and sees Kitty skating. He is even more in love with her. He goes home to the country and is in love with the peasant girl again. He goes back to Moscow and sees Kitty at a concert. He is even more in love with her. He goes to the country and is in love with the peasant girl. He goes back a rich landowner falls in love with a princess, but he’s too shy to approach her, so he just hangs out with her family and enjoys the view. the professor of philosophy was a dick. I don't have time to read this book.