 Anna Karenina is about a woman who has an affair, then her husband finds out, then she has another affair, then she dies.

 he was a man of the world, and he was not in love. He was 	 	not in love, and he was not going to be in love. He was not in love, 	 	and he never would be. And he knew that he could not be in love, because 	 	he was too happy, and happiness, as all people of sense know, is the 	 	surest guarantee against love. 	 	He was happy, but at the same time he felt that there was something 	 	not right; and he could not conceive how it was that everything was 	 	not right. 	
 I’m not a fan of this book. I’ll continue reading it, but I’m not a fan of it.
 Stepan Arkadyevitch is a bit of a dick.
  
 the author of this book is a fucking idiot.
 it's a story about a man who is a dick and a woman who is a saint.
 Anna Karenina is a book about a woman who is a terrible person and a man who is a terrible person and they both have terrible problems and they both have terrible lives and they both have terrible children and they both have terrible friends and they both have terrible families and they both have terrible jobs and they both have terrible houses and they both have terrible clothes and they both have terrible hair and they both have terrible skin and they both have terrible teeth and they both have terrible everything and they both have terrible lives and they both have terrible problems and they both have terrible children and they both have terrible friends and they both have terrible families and they both have terrible jobs and they both have terrible houses and they both have
 Anna Karenina is a tragedy.
 I'm a man, and I'm a woman, and I'm a feminist. I'm a feminist because I'm a man, and I'm a man because I'm a feminist. I'm a feminist because I'm a woman, and I'm a woman because I'm a feminist. I'm a feminist because I'm a man, and I'm a man because I'm a feminist. I'm a feminist because I'm a woman, and I'm a woman because I'm a feminist. I'm a feminist because I'm a man, and I'm a man because I'm a feminist. I'm a feminist because I'm a woman, and I'm a woman because I'm
 Stepan Arkadyevitch is a scoundrel.
 he was a bad student. He was a bad student because he was 	 	 		lazy, and because he had no taste for the abstract sciences. He was 		 		lazy, and he had no taste for the abstract sciences because he was 		 		not interested in them. He was interested in history because it told 		 		of what had happened, of what was happening, and of what would 		 		happen; he was interested in geography because it described the 		 		country; he was interested in the exact sciences because they were 		 		
 Oblonsky is a bureaucrat who lives a life of leisure and pleasure. He is a good-natured man who is liked by everyone he meets. He is a man who is not ambitious, and is content with what he has. He is a man who is not interested in the work he does, and does not care about the results. He is a man who is not interested in the work he does, and does not care about the results. He is a man who is not interested in the work he does, and does not care about the results. He is a man who is not interested in the work he does, and does not care about the results. He is
 Stepan Arkadyevitch is a good man, but he has a secret.   




 I don’t know what I’m doing, but I’m doing it. 
 
 
 
 
 Levin is a very shy person, and he’s a little bit of a conservative. He doesn’t like the idea of the district council, which is a plaything for the coterie of the district to make money. He’s also a little bit angry at Stepan Arkadyevitch, who is always so well dressed.
  
 Levin is a romantic who is in love with Kitty, but he is also a practical man who wants to marry a woman who is a good wife and mother. He is torn between these two desires.  

  
 it's a book about the meaning of life, and how to find it.  
 I’m not going to be a dick, but I’m not going to be a doormat either.
