 Anna Karenina is a novel about a woman who has an affair, gets 								pregnant, and then has to deal with the social consequences. 								It’s a long book, and it’s not always an easy read, but it’s 								worth it. 							 							 								 									 										PART ONE 								

 he was a handsome, susceptible man of thirty-four, and he was not in love.
 a man has an affair with his wife's former governess, and his wife finds out. He's not sure how to handle it.
 Anna is coming to Moscow and she’s going to bring back Dolly and Kitty.
  
 a man of the world is a man of the world, and a man of the world is a man of the world.
 a woman is a woman, but a good cigar is a smoke.
 I’m not sure if I’m going to read the rest of this book. I’m not sure if I’m going to read the rest of this book.
 Dolly is a bitch and I hate her.
 I'm a little late, but I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still here. I'm still


 Oblonsky is a good-natured, liberal, and lazy bureaucrat.
 I'm a bad person.
 I'm a woman, and I'm not a feminist. I'm a woman, and I'm not a feminist. I'm a woman, and I'm not a feminist. I'm a woman, and I'm not a feminist. I'm a woman, and I'm not a feminist. I'm a woman, and I'm not a feminist. I'm a woman, and I'm not a feminist. I'm a woman, and I'm not a feminist. I'm a woman, and I'm not a feminist. I'm a woman, and I'm not a feminist. I'm a woman, and I'm not a feminist. I'm a woman, and I'm
 the author is a fucking genius.
 Levin is a shy, awkward, and socially inept guy who is in love with the Shtcherbatsky sisters. He is also a very intelligent and hard-working man who has a lot of opinions about everything. He is also a very good farmer. He is also a very good friend. He is also a very good brother. He is also a very good son. He is also a very good brother-in-law. He is also a very good father. He is also a very good husband. He is also a very good lover. He is also a very good man. He is also a very good person. He is also a very good person. He is also a
  
 Levin is in love with Kitty, who is engaged to Oblonsky. Levin is a self-deprecating, awkward guy who is also a bit of a mama’s boy. He’s in love with Kitty, but he’s not sure if he should pursue her because he’s not sure if he’s good enough for her. He’s also not sure if he should pursue her because he’s not sure if he’s good enough for her. He’s also not sure if he should pursue her because he’s not sure if he’s good enough for her. He’
 he was a low creature and she was a goddess.   
 Is there a line to be drawn between psychological and physiological phenomena in man? and if so, where?  
   
 
