 Anna Karenina is a novel about a woman who falls in love with a man who is 					married to someone else. 					 					 						 							 								 									PART ONE 									 									CHAPTER I 									 									CHAPTER II 									 								
 it's all about a guy who is having an affair with a governess, but his wife finds out and kicks him out of the house. He goes to his friend's house, and his friend's wife is also having an affair with a governess. They all have a party and they all get drunk and the governesses get drunk and they all have sex with each other. The end.
 he was a cheater and he knew it.
 I’m not a fan of Tolstoy.
 The husband and wife are having a spat. The husband is a bit of a 																																																																																																																											
 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
 a man who has no interest in politics and is a liberal is a hypocrite.


 Anna Karenina is a novel by Leo Tolstoy, first published in 1877. It is regarded as one of the major works of 19th-century fiction. Tolstoy himself considered Anna Karenina his first true novel. It is the seventh longest novel ever written, and is widely considered to be one of the first works of modernist literature.
 she’s a bitch, and he’s a shit.
 the husband of a woman who is a friend of Anna Karenina’s is having an affair with the governess of his children. Anna Karenina finds out and confronts him. He cries and begs her to forgive him. She says she can’t forgive him. He says he loves her. She says she hates him. He says he loves her. She says she hates him. He says he loves her. She says she hates him. He says he loves her. She says she hates him. He says he loves her. She says she hates him. He says he loves her. She says she hates him. He says he loves her. She says she hates him.
  
 Oblonsky is a good guy.
 Stepan Arkadyevitch is a good man and a good husband, but he is not a good man, and he is not a good husband.
 I am a man, and I am a man, and I am a man.


 
 Levin is in love with Kitty, but he’s also in love with the Shtcherbatskys’ household, and he’s in love with the Shtcherbatskys’ household because he’s in love with Kitty.
 he was a peasant and she was a princess.   
 Is there a line to be drawn between psychological and physiological phenomena in man? and if so, where?   

 I’m not going to post the entire book here. I’ll post the next chapter when I get home from work.
