 Anna Karenina is a novel about adultery.  

 he was a cuckold.
 wife found out about the affair, husband is feeling bad about it, but then he realizes that he’s got to live in the needs of the day, so he goes to shave and get dressed.
 I think the point is that Anna is so self-centered that she doesn't 		even realize that she's being a bitch. She's just so used to being 		the center of attention that she doesn't even realize that she's being 		a bitch. She's just so used to being the center of attention that she 		doesn't even realize that she's being a bitch. She's just so used to 		being the center of attention that she doesn't even realize that she's 		being a bitch. She's just so used to being the center of attention that 		she doesn't even realize that she's being a
 he was a cheater, and he knew it, and he was trying to reconcile   
 the main character is a bit of a dick.
 a man is a woman's property, and she is his.
 he’s a terrible husband.
 Anna Karenina is a Russian novel by Leo Tolstoy. It was first published in serial form in the Russian literary magazine The Russian Messenger from 1873 to 1877. It is often cited as one of the world's greatest novels.
 I am a piece of shit, and I deserve to be treated like one.
 she’s the worst, he’s the best.
 he was a cheater and a liar, and he was a cheater and a liar, and he was a cheater and a liar, and he was a cheater and a liar, and he was a cheater and a liar, and he was a cheater and a liar, and he was a cheater and a liar, and he was a cheater and a liar, and he was a cheater and a liar, and he was a cheater and a liar, and he was a cheater and a liar, and he was a cheater and a liar, and he was a cheater and a liar, and he was a cheater and a liar, and

 Stepan Arkadyevitch is a good man, but he is a bit of a dick.
  
 Levin is a liberal, but he is also a conservative. He is a liberal because he is a conservative. He is a conservative because he is a liberal. He is a liberal because he is a conservative. He is a conservative because he is a liberal. He is a liberal because he is a conservative. He is a conservative because he is a liberal. He is a liberal because he is a conservative. He is a conservative because he is a liberal. He is a liberal because he is a conservative. He is a conservative because he is a liberal. He is a liberal because he is a conservative. He is a conservative because he is a liberal. He is a liberal because he is a
 Levin is a weirdo who doesn’t know how to interact with people. He’s also a weirdo who doesn’t know how to interact with people. He’s also a weirdo who doesn’t know how to interact with people. He’s also a weirdo who doesn’t know how to interact with people. He’s also a weirdo who doesn’t know how to interact with people. He’s also a weirdo who doesn’t know how to interact with people. He’s also a weirdo who doesn’t know how to interact with people. He’
  
 Levin is in love with Kitty, but there is a problem. Kitty is engaged to be married to a man who is not a bad man, but not a good man. Levin is in love with Kitty, but he is also in love with the idea of being in love with Kitty. He is in love with the idea of being in love with Kitty, because he wants to be in love with Kitty, but he is also in love with the idea of being in love with Kitty, because he wants to be in love with Kitty, but he is also in love with the idea of being in love with Kitty, because he wants to be in love with Kitty, but he is also in love

  
 the professor is a dick
 I’m not a fan of Tolstoy.
